# Neurological Diagnoses in Hospitalized COVID-19 Patients Associated With Adverse Outcomes: A Multinational Cohort Study

Hutch, MR*, Son J*, Le TT*, Hong C*, Xuan W*, Shakeri Z*, Morris M, Gutiérrez-Sacristán A, Klann G, Spiridou A, Bellazzi Riccardo, Benoit V, Bonzel C, Bryant WA, Cho K, Das P, Hanauer DA, Henderson DW, Ho YL, Loh W, Makoudjou A, Malovini A, Moal B, Mowery DL, Samayamuthu MJ, Sanz Vidorreta FJ, Schriver ER, Schubert P, Talbert J, Tan ALM, Tan BWL, Tan BWQ, Tibollo V, Yuan W, Avillach P, Gehlenborg N, Omenn GS, Characterization of COVID-19 by EHR (4CE), The Consortium for Clinical, Visweswaran S**, Cai T**, Luo Y**, Xia Z**.

*Share first co-authorship, **Share senior co-authorship

[A Consortium for Clinical Characterization of COVID-19 by EHR study](https://covidclinical.net/)

# **Patient Population**

Our study leverages a multinational study of \> 106,000 hospitalized COVID-19 adult and pediatric positive patients from 21 healthcare systems across 6 countries. We examined and report the clinical health outcomes (length of hospital stay and mortality) of COVID-19 patients with concurrent neurological diagnoses.

Specifically, we used ICD codes to stratify patients into three groups of patients with 1) no neurological condition (NNC), 2) a central nervous system condition (CNS), or 3) a peripheral nervous system condition (PNS) in order to evaluate the risk of poor health outcomes by neurologic status.

# **View Code and Analysis:**


## **Data pre-processing**

1.  `01_healthcare-system-metadata.Rmd` - computes the number of adult and pediatric patients at each healthcare system.

    a\. Used for **Supplementary Table 1. Description of participating healthcare systems**

    b\. Supplementary Table 1 also contains healthcare system data as reported on the [4CE Health Systems Participating google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Xl9juDBXt86P3xQtsoTaBl2zPl1BIiAG9DI3Rotyqp8/edit#gid=212461777) on Dec 26, 2022

2.  `02_demographic-preprocess.Rmd` - processes the demographic data by healthcare system.

    a\. Used to generate **Figure 2. Demographic profile at each participating healthcare system**

    b\. Figure 2 is generated by subsequently running `/demographic-figure/demographics.R` and creating final touch ups using Keynote on Mac iOS.

3.  `03_comorbidity-preprocess.Rmd` - this pre-processes the comorbidity data by healthcare system.

    *Of note, this script reads in healthcare system data stored in the `results_comorbidity/`. After having sites run the initital package, I realized I forgot to include one of the comorbidity tables in the output. For this reason, sites reran just the comorbidity analysis and generated the `[site]_comorb_results.rda` file. In some cases, sites reran the full code (thus, generating the typical `[site]_results.rda` file) and I subsequently manually changed the name of the .rda file to be consistent and allow this script to remain streamlined.*

## **Meta-Analysis**

1.  `Patient-Characteristics.Rmd` - generate preliminary demographics, clinical course, and comorbidity analyses

2. `Meta-Analysis-Cox-PH.Rmd` - performs the random-effects meta-analysis on the Cox-PH models at each site and plots forest plots to visualize the local and global risk estimates.

3. `Meta-Analysis-KM-Survival-Curves.Rmd` - performs the random-effects meta-analysis on the covariate adjusted Kaplan-Meier survival curves.

## 

[2021 Preprint Available](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4057133)

*Revised Manuscript currently under review*

